[KED-2529] Layout engine docs (#436)
quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz: LAYOUT_ENGINE.md

> #  The Kedro Viz graph layout engine

Reviewer: Nit: Kedro-Viz should be hyphenated

```suggestion
#  The Kedro-Viz graph layout engine
```

> This documents our implementation of the engine we use in [Kedro Viz](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz) at a high level as a reference for our project maintainers. 

Reviewer 2: Kedro-Viz or Kedro Viz when used in sentences? @richardwestenra @yetudada ?

> This documents our implementation of the engine we use in [Kedro Viz](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz) at a high level as a reference for our project maintainers. 

Reviewer 3: It's Kedro-Viz 😄

  <img width="450" alt="kedro-viz-drawing" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45365769/117349544-67d75680-aea3-11eb-8c72-d1b88f4b930c.png">
</p>

We break down graph drawings like ours shown above into our essential and unique principles:

- The nodes tend to be close together
- The nodes do not overlap
- The nodes align on each axis
- The edges tend to the vertical
- The edges do not cross
- The edges point in the same direction
- The trees have symmetry

We form our [constraints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_(mathematics)) between nodes and edges using these rules, which allows us to frame the graph drawing problem as a [constrained optimisation problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constrained_optimization):

> Given the graph _G_ contains set of nodes _N = { A, B, C… }_ and set of edges _E = { A → B, A → C… }_ and a set of constraints _C_
> 
> - for every node pair _{ A, B }_ in all nodes _N_
>   - minimise position distance _|A<sub>p</sub> - B<sub>p</sub>|_
>   - subject to all constraints in _C_
> - for every edge _A → B_
>   - draw path from _A<sub>p</sub>_ to _B<sub>p</sub>_ avoiding all nodes _N_

In practice we've made two key simplifcations:

> - We consider node position variables in X and Y axes as [independent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_and_independent_variables), such that a node may freely change position in X without affecting its position in Y and vice versa

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We consider node position variables in X and Y axes as [independent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_and_independent_variables), such that a node may change position freely in X without affecting its position in Y and vice versa
```

- We consider the routing problem independent from the layout problem

## The constraints

From each rule we form [geometric constraints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_constraint_solving) as relations between our node positions:

#### __Row Constraint__ 

"Edges point in the same direction" and "Nodes do not overlap"

>- for every edge _A → B_ in all edges _E_
>    - ensure minimum distance and direction A to B in Y-axis  
>    __B<sub>y</sub> ≥ A<sub>y</sub> + d__
>    - where _A_ is the _source_ node and _B_ is the _target_ node
>    - where _d_ is the minimum vertical row distance required

_Notes_
- we implemented this as our __row constraint__ ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/constraints.js#L9-L22))
- and the __layer constraint__ by adding layer nodes ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/layout.js#L106-L136))
- the expected performance is _O(E)_ [linear complexity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_complexity) in number of edges

> - this equation forms a [linear constraint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_programming) with one minimal solution

Reviewer: Nit: I think the first letter of each bullet line should be capitalised, e.g.
```
- We implemented this as our __row constraint__ ...
```
This is because they read as complete sentences. The same goes for later sections.

- it supports [soft constraints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_satisfaction_problem#Flexible_CSPs) with partial solutions
- it has limited output [similarity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coherence_(signal_processing)) given similar inputs
- the constraint strength and iterations must be well tuned ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/layout.js#L187-L189))

### Strict solver

We form a reduced set of constraints ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/layout.js#L51-L74)) based on the loose solution and give that to a slower but exact [hard constraint solver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_satisfaction_problem#Flexible_CSPs):

- it has a complex implementation (handled by [kiwi.js](https://github.com/IjzerenHein/kiwi.js/) / [Cassowary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cassowary_(software)) library) ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/solver.js#L41-L90))

> - its performance suited to a few thousand constraints

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- its performance is suited to a few thousand constraints
```

- it is limited to [hard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_satisfaction_problem#Flexible_CSPs) and [linear constraints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_programming) ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/6572c5fa89ec57214c35e866d4584fa510b41aa3/src/utils/graph/constraints.js#L17-L23))
- it finds an exact complete solution or no solution
- it has strong output similarity given similar inputs
- the constraint priority can be optionally tuned ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/constraints.js#L57))

### Combining both solvers

> We find this combination results in a layout where all nodes are assigned positions that strongly respect our constraints, in a short amount of processing time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The combination results in a layout that assigns all nodes positions that strongly respect our constraints, and does so in a short amount of processing time.
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="1409" alt="kedro-viz-solvers" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45365769/117351124-41b2b600-aea5-11eb-9dfd-480c98e7ca7d.png">
</p>

## Routing

Given our engine has solved our constraints and it has found a layout, it then handles routing edges with a separate algorithm ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/main/src/utils/graph/routing.js)).

We found that in many cases a single straight line for each edge would cut through many nodes along the way. Our routing moves around these nodes instead so the drawing is clear for us to read.

Our implemented routing algorithm is roughly:

> - given positions decided for all nodes in _N_
> - for every edge _A → B_ in all edges _E_
>    - start at edge source node position _(A<sub>x</sub> A<sub>y</sub>)_
>    - draw a line to the closest empty point on each row after
>    - stop at the row of the edge target node
>    - draw a line to the edge target node position _(B<sub>x</sub> B<sub>y</sub>)_

> We see this results in a relatively short path for each edge, where most path segments tend to be vertical, with its processing completed very quickly in practice ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/main/src/utils/graph/routing.js)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This results in a relatively short path for each edge, where most path segments tend to be vertical, with its processing completed quickly in practice ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/main/src/utils/graph/routing.js)).
```

> #  The Kedro Viz Graph Layout Engine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#  The Kedro Viz graph layout engine
```

> An engine for drawing [Kedro](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro) pipelines, visualised as a graph built from nodes connected by edges. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use this engine to [draw Kedro pipelines](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro), visualised as a graph built from nodes connected by edges. 
```

Reviewer 2: Just sort-of removing passive-ness and making the link a bit more explicative. Feel free to further experiment with it!

The solution developed for the [Kedro Viz](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz) project can quickly find high quality graph drawings while performing well on Kedro scale projects.

> You can see and interact with rendered graphs on the [Kedro Viz demo](https://quantumblacklabs.github.io/kedro-viz/) and explore the [code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/tree/main/src/utils/graph) of the approach discussed here.

Reviewer 2: Again, it's a bit passive "approach discussed here". And I'm not sure what "approach discussed here" is referring to.

```suggestion
The engine allows you to interact with rendered graphs on the [Kedro Viz demo](https://quantumblacklabs.github.io/kedro-viz/) . You can explore the [code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/tree/main/src/utils/graph) of the approach discussed here.
```

</p>

#### __Crossing Constraint__

"Edges do not cross"

>- for every pair of edges _{ A → B, C → D }_ in all edges _E_
>    - ensure direction A to C is same direction B to D in X-axis  
>    _(A<sub>x</sub> < C<sub>x</sub> and B<sub>x</sub> < D<sub>x</sub>) or (A<sub>x</sub> > C<sub>x</sub> and B<sub>x</sub> > D<sub>x</sub>)_  
or as vectors __(A<sub>x</sub> - C<sub>x</sub>) ・ (B<sub>x</sub> - D<sub>x</sub>) < 0__

_Notes_
- implemented as the __crossing constraint__ ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/constraints.js#L61-L85))
- equation forms a nonlinear constraint
- performance _O(E<sup>2</sup>)_ quadratic complexity in number of edges
- simplifies given rows, to _O(max|E<sub>row</sub>|<sup>2</sup>)_ complexity ([code](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/210974eb743a8116d6656ce41abe5ecee770dbcd/src/utils/graph/layout.js#L164-L171))

<p align="center">
  <img width="500" alt="kedro-viz-crossing-constraint" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45365769/117353287-da4a3580-aea7-11eb-870c-7957e15e5580.png">
</p>

## Solving the constraints

> In this engine the best properties of two distinct solving approaches are combined in the following way:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This engine combines the best properties of two distinct solving approaches in the following way:
```
